hello so today I'm going to get started
on some summer assignments that I've
been set by the university to prepare me
for my third year basically a few weeks
ago at the astrophysics department
emailed out and said you all need to do
to computing assignments over summer I
have no idea what's involved at all I
haven't even looked at it yet I have no
idea how long it's gonna take me how
hard it's supposed to be I don't even
know when the deadline is I should check
that also while I'm here I thought I'd
update you on what's going on with my
life as you all know I did a summer
internship that finished about a week
ago and ever since then I've just been
chilling out basically doing nothing
like I literally have spent a week
lounging around being as unproductive as
I possibly could be but I've enjoyed it
having nothing to do I'm feeling guilt
free about just chilling out I feel
actually now's the time I probably
should get looking at these summer
assignments I think it might be a bit of
a shock because I haven't looked at any
academic work in a long time not since
exams and exams were about two months
ago over two months ago now let's get
back into study mode why not at least I
mean my brain has been like doing a lot
of thinking while I've been on my
internship so I haven't just let myself
shut down entirely but it hasn't been
all the academic work that I do at
university it's been more logic and
learning about a new area so that was
quite that was different to university
the plan is I'm probably just gonna
spread this assignment out over a few
days I'm not going to get it all done
today today all I'm really looking for
is to get an idea in my mind of what
I've actually got to do okay let's have
a look at this assignment shall we here
we're going part to summer camp
projects did part two students we have
you on record as intending to take part
to astrophysics in the coming academic
year
that is correct I am ready to confirm
that we are able to admit you to this
course what was good news which lead to
the BA degree in summer 2020 that's very
exciting but also quite scary okay
please read the information below with
regard to cation project work for the
summer so what does cation stand for
don't say let's look up cata
computer-aided teaching of all
mathematics the aim of this exercise is
to familiarize students with what is
required in a cation style right up so
as to assist those students who then
ought to submit Katz and projects as
examinable work for part 2 astrophysics
oh yeah because basically in your third
year doing astrophysics you make the
choice of either doing a computation or
project or writing an essay on an area
of your choice within astrophysics and
that will form part of your grade
basically it's your coursework choice so
the deadline is Wednesday the 18th of
September so today you split up all
those little Sunday which is the first
time back from all day over 12th of
September and then it's due on the 18th
I've got a few days now for a go away
and a few days when I get back hopefully
I can do it in that time this project is
about the elementary properties of
vector spaces
Oh
I feel like my maths brain has just
packed up it just tells you like it will
give you some sort of mathematical thing
then it says write a program to do it
Wow I thought this is where my coding
skills are really girl let me down
because my coding skills are
non-existent where's the manual is there
some sort of advice given to us someone
ah it's okay everyone
I found the manual I'm gonna read this
manual because I think it might calm me
down a bit I have a habit of when I
first see an assignment to think oh my
god I can't do it and nine times out of
ten I actually can do it so just good
[ __ ] I'm gonna read the manual get an
idea of what I'm doing
plan out hunger tackle this stuff and
I'll get back to you
[Music]
okay I've read them on you I'm feeling a
little bit calmer
it looks doable they're recommending we
use MATLAB which I guess is good like
I've had a bit of experience using
MATLAB in my first year of university
not a lot I've gotten a lot of it but at
least I've had some practice over as far
as I'm aware it's quite an easy language
to program in so that's good and I could
remember these assignments are
essentially a practice run for what I'm
going to be doing next year so I
shouldn't stress too much about it I
should just you know take it as a good
learning opportunity so I need to
download MATLAB because I do not
currently have it installed on my
computer we get it free on the
University license but this is the first
challenge isn't it figuring out how to
install it
download yes please which version do I
want download maybe it's not a good idea
to do this while I'm uploading a video
to YouTube the struggle of being a
youtuber I've always kind of viewed
coding and this sort of stuff as my
weakness but I actually think I'm not
that bad at it I definitely don't think
I'm as bad as I think I am I just get
annoyed at computers quite easily like
if computers aren't working fast enough
or doing what I want them to do
immediately like or some sort of error
comes up I will just be like why and I'm
not very patient with computers which i
think is my problem I can change I can
get better at that I'm gonna go into
this with the mindset that I am a
programming Wiz I can program all these
solutions to these mathematical problems
ok plan of action get MATLAB downloaded
this evening I think I'm just gonna look
over my MATLAB manual that I have from
my first year of university just to kind
of reminder myself how to use MATLAB
before I start diving into any of this
project work and then maybe somewhere
I'll actually try and
the projects hello everyone so it is the
next day and basically I know I said I
was gonna read through that manual last
night on MATLAB Bart did it happen
not exactly I got through the first
couple of pages and then Great British
Bake Off came on TV it's a new series so
I wasn't gonna miss that let's be real
kind of didn't read through the manual
properly last night but I'm just gonna
like dive into it today and just see how
I go
I found a more applicable manual on the
Moodle site online anyway that's like
learning to use MATLAB for cat am so
that she for all these projects so it's
all the skills that I should need
hopefully and I actually want to make
good progress on this today because
there is a deadline to this and I don't
have that many days to get it done in so
I just think it'd be nice to get done
now and not leave it til the last minute
[Music]
hello everyone so it's now a few hours
later and I did do a bit of work this
morning I ended up actually just kind of
learning the basics of MATLAB so I
haven't actually done anything relevant
to the actual project yeah I've had
quite an extended lunch break but now
I'm getting back to it I think I'm still
gonna carry on getting to grips with
MATLAB because I don't feel quite ready
to jump into the project yeah Wow and
then there was me this morning like yeah
just gonna dive into it I feel like it's
worth just taking some time setting the
foundation now and it'll just speed
things up later
you know I definitely though want to get
started on the actual project by the end
of today for sure but yeah I'm gonna put
some music on because that's chill I'm
gonna get going
[Music]
Oh
guys I just wrote a piece of code and it
worked I'm so excited it's been a bit of
a struggle today so this first project
requires me to know about modular
arithmetic and I literally have never
learned about that before in my life
but it doesn't seem like a difficult
concept I don't quite know why I haven't
been taught it before but I've never
come across it in like lectures at all
before so I looked it up online looked
at some online lectures I now kind of
understand what's going on I was like
what is integers modulo P what does that
mean but now I know and I just wrote a
piece of code to find inverses of non
zero elements in a finite field
represented by the integers modulo P
some prime P I'm so excited but also it
maybe I should be worried because I have
literally made it to the end of question
one this project has how many questions
eight questions and I've got another
project to do which has probably another
eight questions I've got sixteen
questions to do and I've literally
managed to do one question from the
entirety of today and it's now 20 past
6:00 it's not looking great guys what
I'm thinking is it's gonna be a slow
start because I need to figure out how
to program stuff because I have a very
minimal experience in it basically no
experience and also these projects we've
been given were actually made for people
studying maths and they're set for
second year math students at Cambridge
so some of the stuff in here though I
haven't actually done in lectures but
like these math students will have I
think concentration levels could have
been higher this afternoon you can tell
I've had a few months off from any
academic work my mind was drifting off
hers having a bit of a daydream and I'm
like no you page concentrate and then
I've been listening to music and I've
probably been spending more time jamming
to the music and actually concentrating
on the work so that's pretty slow down
but you know what I feel so much better
that I've actually made a star Hey
every one I can't remember the last time
I spoke to you it's been a while
actually so I went on holiday I went to
Florida with my family I'm back and I've
actually went back for a number of days
now but I'm back to my project which is
now due tomorrow cuz you know me leaving
things to the last minute what I'm good
at and like the current state of players
it's taking me ages to do every question
will I get it done on time I'm not sure
okay I'll have something to submit it on
time sure it's not gonna be perfect
let me walk you through part of my
journey to this point because I have
done some work on this project since I
went away basically before I went away I
was thinking this is impossible
I was chatting to my friend about it and
we both agreed that we didn't even know
the theory behind the programs were
supposed to be doing so how are we
supposed to write these programs when we
don't even understand the mathematical
theory I've noticed a pattern and it's
just like Cambridge they do this piece
of work yeah we haven't taught you any
of it birth figure it out and it's quite
hard I abandoned the first project which
was on finite fields because I just
didn't understand what was going on so
we switched to the other project which
is on ordinary differential equations
which I do I understand the theory
behind I then kind of started using
Excel because I'm comfy in Excel and a
lot of what was new years I could do in
Excel and then I realized at the end
they were like yeah make sure you like
put screenshots for your programs in so
I should have written a program to do it
rather than use Excel and to be fair
using a program is actually a lot
quicker than using Excel so I should
have done that to start off with but I
was just you know putting off the
inevitable then it got to a harder
question which I'm using a program for
anyway so I've made friends with MATLAB
I've come to realize that MATLAB isn't
all that bad I'm kind of just tying up
this differential equations project now
let me show you what I've done okay so
my computer is a bit of a mess right in
hell I've got tabs open everywhere but
let's go into my write-up so ya got
tables estimated growth rates solving a
difference equation screenshot of my
program it may look simple to you guys
but like you know I died actually
for I've got to do this not gonna lie I
didn't know how all these for loops
works took a while to figure out as I
said coding does not come naturally to
me here is another one what do we got
little graphs Internet exciting solving
a differential equation who was fun oh
there's a lovely piece of code doesn't
that look lovely you get the idea the
finite fields one I barely got anywhere
with I haven't done much worth I've
learned about two questions out of eight
but they did say I've reread the email
and it was like doing one project is
essentially compulsory which I've done
and the other project I'm gonna submit
what I've got for marking I thought this
would be a really quick computing
project and it just really hasn't been
what I got here I've got a 16 page
document for one of the projects and
like that's taken quite hard to put
together clear there's a lose of bitty
parts and you have to interpret stuff
I'm not confident I've interrupted
everything properly I'm not even
confident that my codes have worked
properly I'm not gonna lie I've come out
with some weird results that I can't
explain
I'm gonna keep going I basically need to
keep going for the rest of this evening
and tomorrow so I have something decent
to submit
[Music]
absolutely my project thank goodness I'm
not really happy with the work I've
submitted I just feel like it wasn't
that great quality my computing skills
clearly have quite a long way to go but
this is the first step so it's fine
how'd you know I'm pleased I've done it
I think I have got something out of the
doing the projects so that's good I'm
not expecting anything good when the
marks come back yeah I don't even want
to think about the mark I'm actually
quite bad as someone's gonna be marking
that work because I feel like they're
gonna be like it's this girl stupid but
I tried I tried
you saw the time and effort I put into
it or I mean you saw a bit of air I
forgot to film a lot of the time this
video has been a bit of a mess for which
I apologize maybe it just kind of
reflects what was going on with the
project because they were a bit of a
mess - I went for quite a few days
working on this project like non-stop so
it's kind of depressing they haven't
turned out as good as I'd hoped they
would sometimes the way after this
project I'm not gonna lie I'm really
tempted to do the essay next year rather
than the computing Katan project
although I know that like coding a
computing is very central to
astrophysics so I think I do need to
come to terms with that if I was to ever
do any work in astrophysics I wouldn't
be getting along well with it if I don't
like coding or computing I'm actually
quite looking forward to going back to
uni though and let's just start really
late this year I don't actually start
lectures until the 10th of October so
I've got a few more weeks of chilling
basically which I'm gonna make the most
of thank you for watching this video
sorry Elizabeth a mess this is me
signing off having done my summer
project work whoo-hoo dedicated student
right here
hope you're all good like the video
subscribe hit the notification bell
follow me on instagram at underscore
paige underscore y link in the
description and yeah hey guys
[Music]